# Cursor AI

- It's an IDE that embaces AI on every part of it, from code completion to documentation generation.
- It's a fork of the VSCode editor, so it has a familiar interface.
- There is a free version available, but it has some limitations, you'll need to pay for the pro version to unlock all features.

## Features

- **Autocomplete:** It's a feature that allows you to autocomplete code as you type, using `tab` to accept the suggestion, unlike GitHub Copilot, this feature is more aggressive and will sugge more robust code.
- **Next suggestion:** It's a feature that works very seamlesly with the autocomplete feature, it allows you to see the next suggestion as you type, using `tab` to accept the suggestion.
- Like any other AI tool, cursor can get stuck in a loop, for example, if you're writting pseudocode, it can get stuck suggesting the same comment(s) over and over again, always remember that you're the developer, and you're in control of the code, start by writing the code, and then let the AI help you with the details.
- **Debug with AI:** When you run your code and get console errors, you can use the debug with AI feature to fix the errors, it's a very powerful feature that can help you fix errors quickly and efficiently.
- **Chat:** You can chat with the AI directly in the editor, this is usefule when you need to delimitate a problem, or you need to ask the AI to do something specific, or just by starting a new chat, you can also send the request either to generate code or to ask a new question.
  - Like in GitHub Copilot we have the `@` symbol to access different tools to inject more context into our conversation:
    - **Files and folders:** Here you can inject specific files and folders to the conversation.
    - **Code:** Here you can inject specific code block to the conversation.
    - **Docs:** Here you can inject specific documentation to the conversation, this is useful when you need to ask the AI to do something specific, or just by starting a new chat.
    - **Git:** This will provide context about the git repository, this is useful when you need to consult the git history, or to see the changes made to the code.
    - **Past Chats:** With this function you'll be able to bring previous conversations to the current one, to avoid repeating the same questions over and over again.
    - **Cursor Rules:** This is a very powerful feature, it allows you to set rules for the AI to follow, like the language you want to use, the style of the code, the architecture of the code, the best practices to follow, etc.
    - **Terminals:** This will allow you to run commands in the terminal, this is useful when you need to run a command to test the code, or to see the output of the code.
    - **Linted Errors:** This will allow you to see the linted errors in the code, this is useful when you need to see the errors in the code, and to fix them.
    - **Web:** This will allow you to search the web for any useful information you need to use.
  - We can send our requests to a scoped request, or to a codebase request that will consider the whole codebase.
- **Terminal Chat:** This is a feature that allows you to chat with the AI directly in the terminal, this is useful when you need to run a command to test the code, or to see the output of the code.
- **Composer Mode:** This is a feature that allows you to code in agent mode, this is the most powerful feature of Cursor, it allows you to code in a more natural way, you can start by writing the code, and then let the AI help you with the details, or even let the AI write the code for you, and then you can review and edit it, this feature will run code in the background, fix errors, run terminal commands, and more, always asking you first.
  - When reviewing the changes made by cursor, you'll be able to use the diff view to see the changes made by the AI, and then you can accept, complement with a new prompt, or reject the changes, it's like a PR review, but for the code generated by the AI.
- **Auto-run mode:** This feature popularized the term `Vibe Coding`, which is a way to code where you're not writting code, you're just talking to the AI, and the AI is writting the code for you, it'll run terminal commands, fix errors, and more without asking you first, so use it carefully, because it can easily get you in trouble.

## MCP Servers

- Model Context Protocols are a way to extend the capabilities of the AI, by adding more context to the composer, like pushing code to GitHub, or running terminal commands from specific dependencies, or even to have a dedicated server for specific tasks like checking the dependencies versions and update them if needed, it's like adding oracles to connect the AI to the real world live data.